Homework for Chapter 2 of Learning MySQL (2006 edition), from p. 94:

Exercises:
1) What is command completion?

At the shell prompt type part of a command, file or directory name and press the tab key. 
The shell will complete the name of the command, file or directory, if it is unique, or will provide a list of possible matches.

The mysql client will do this for table and column names.


2) What are the relative advantages of installing MySQL using the package,
 directory archive (tarball or "no-install"), or compiled methods?
 
 package: simplest
 directory archive: can control where the software is installed
 compiler: can control where the software is installed; can customise MySQL software parameters prior to compilation 
 

3) How do you verify the integrity of downloaded packages?

Perform an md5 hash on the dowloaded file (md5sum in linux) and compare this hash value against the hash value published on the website from which the package was downloaded.


4) How do you add the MySQL bin directory to the operating system path?

In Linux add it to the PATH environment variable, e.g.:
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/mysql/bin

In Windows this is done by adding the directory to the Path environment variable in the Systems variables area of Control Panel.




Additional Exercises (not in the book): 
1) Document how you installed MySQL and any issues you came across with installation. 
 (The goal is to be easy to install it again on a similar machine.)

On 64-bit Centos 5 I installed the latest MySQL 5.5 community server and client:
rpm -ihv MySQL-server-5.5.29-1.rhel5.x86_64.rpm
rpm -ihv MySQL-client-5.5.29-1.rhel5.x86_64.rpm

On Windows 7 I installed the latest MySQL 5.5 server and workbench using the Windows Installer.
 

2) Document where important files should be.

Linux:
By default /var/lib/mysql contains the data, logs and other important files
Windows:
By default "C:\ProgramData\MySQL\MySQL Server 5.5" contains the data, logs and other important files



Do not forget to do a pull request when your homework is complete.
